Hi. My name is Lukasz,
and I want to tell
you in this video
why we made the machine
learning library Trax.
This is a little bit of
a personal story for me.
I've been at Google for
about seven years now.
I'm a researcher in
the Google Brain Team.
But before I was a researcher,
I was a software engineer.
I worked on a lot of
machine learning
projects and frameworks.
This journey for me ended
in the Trax library.
I believe Trax is currently
the best library to learn
and to productionize
machine learning research
and machine learning models,
especially sequenced models,
models like transformer
and models that are used in
natural language processing.
The reasons I believe
that come from
a personal journey that
I took that led me here.
I will tell you a
little bit about
myself and how I came here,
and then I'll tell
you why I think Trax
is the best thing to use
currently for machine learning,
especially in natural
language processing.
My journey with machine learning
and machine learning
frameworks started
around 2014-15 when we
were making TensorFlow.
TensorFlow is, you probably know,
is a big machine
learning systems,
it has about 100 million
downloads by now.
It was released in November 2015.
It was a very emotional moment
for all of us when we
were releasing it.
At that point, we were not sure
if deep learning will
become as big as it did.
We were not sure how many
users there will be.
What we wanted to do was a system
that's primarily very fast,
that can run distributed
machine learning systems,
large-scale fast training.
The main focus was speed.
A secondary focus was to make
it easy to program the
systems that wasn't a reader,
but it was not the
most important thing.
After releasing
TensorFlow, I worked on
machine translation
and especially
on the Google's Neural
Machine Translation System.
This was the first system
using deep sequence models
that was used by
the Google Translate
team that was
actually released as a product.
It's handling all of Google
translations these days.
Every language that we
have has a neural model.
It started with LSTMs
and RNN models,
and now it's a lot
of transformers.
We released that in
2016 based on the
TensorFlow framework.
These models, they're amazing.
They're much better than
the previous phrase-based
translation models,
but they took a
long time to train.
They were training for days
on clusters of GPUs at that time.
This was not practical for anyone
else to do rather than Google.
This was only because we
had this TensorFlow system,
a large group of engineers
who would ferry very well,
and we were training
for days and days.
That was great. But I felt
like this is not
satisfactory because no
one else can do that.
It's not possible to be
done at the university.
You cannot launch a
startup doing that,
because it was impossible
if you were not Google,
or maybe from Microsoft,
but no one else.
I wanted to change that.
To do that, we created the
Tensor2Tensor Library.
The Tensor2Tensor Library,
which was released in 2017,
started with the thought that we
should make this deep
learning research,
especially for sequence
models, widely accessible.
This was not working with
these large RNN models,
but while writing the library,
we created this
transformer model.
This transformer has
taken NLP by storm
because it allows you
to train much faster.
At that time within
a few days, now,
it's less than a
day in a matter of
hours on an 8 GPU system.
You can create
translation models that
surpass any RNN models.
The Tensor2Tensor library has
become already widely used.
It's used in production
Google systems.
It's used by some
very large companies
in the world and it
has led to a number of
startups that they know about
that basically exists
thanks to this library.
You can say, well, this
is done and this is good,
but, the problem is,
it's become complicated and it's
not nice to learn
and it's become very hard
to do new researcher.
Around 2018, we decided
it's time to improve.
As time moves on,
we need to do even better,
and this is how we created Trax.
Trax is a deep-learning library
that's focused on
clear code and speed.
Let me tell you why, so,
if you think carefully
what you want from a
deep-learning library,
there are really two
things that matters.
You want the the
programmers to be
efficient and you want
the code to run fast,
and this is because
what costs you is the
time of the programmer,
and the money you need to
pay for running
your training code.
Programmer's time
is very important.
You need to use it efficiently,
but in deep learning
you're training
big models and these
costs money too.
For example, using eight GPUs
on-demand from the Cloud,
can cost $20 an hour almost.
But using the
preemptible eight could
TPU costs only $1.40.
In Trax, you can use
one or the other
without changing a single
character in your code.
How does Trax make
programmers sufficient?
Well, it was redesigned from
the bottom-up to be easy
to debug and understand.
You can literally read
Trax code and understand
what's going to come.
This is not the case in
some other libraries,
this is unluckily of the
case anymore in TensorFlow.
But, you can say, well
it used to be the case,
but nowadays TensorFlow,
even when we clean up the code,
it needs to be
backwards compatible.
It carries the weight of
these years of development,
and this is crazy errors
of Machine Learning.
There is a lot of
baggage that it just
has to carry because it's
backward compatible.
What we do in Trax is we
break the backwards
compatibility.
This means you need
to learn new things.
This carries some price.
But what you get for that price,
is that it's a newly
cleanly designed library
which has four models,
not just primitives
to build them,
but also four models
with dataset bindings,
we regression test these models
daily because we use
these libraries,
so we know every day
these monster running.
It's like a new
programming language.
It costs a little bit to learn,
this is a new thing, but it
makes your life much
more efficient.
To make this point point clear,
the Adam Optimizer,
the most popular
optimizer in machine
learning timesteps.
On the left, you
see a screenshot from the
paper that introduced data,
and you see it has like
about seven lines.
Next is just a part
of the Adam implementation
and patronage,
which is one of the
cleanest ones actually
and you need to know way more,
you need to know what
are parameter groups,
you need to know secret keys into
these groups that key
parameters by some means,
you need to do seven stick
initialization and some
conditional to introduce
either and other things.
On the right, you see
the Adam optimizer in
TensorFlow and Keras and as
you'll see it's even longer.
You need to apply it to
resource variables and two
non-research variables
and you need to know
what these are.
The reason they
exist is historical.
Currently we only use
resource variables,
but we have to support people
who used the old
non-research variables too.
There are a lot of things that in
2020 you actually
don't need anymore,
but they have to be there and
painted and in TensorFlow code.
While if you go to Trax code,
this is the full code
of Adam and Trax.
It's very similar for the paper.
That's the whole point.
Because if you're implementing
a new paper or if you're
learning and you want to find,
in the code of the framework,
where are the equations
from the paper,
you can really do with this here.
So that is the benefit of Trax.
The price of this benefit
is that you're using a new thing.
But there is a huge gain that
comes to you when you're
actually debugging your code.
When you're debugging your code,
you will hit lines that
are in the framework.
So you will actually need
to understand these lines,
which means you need
to understand all of
these PyTorch and all of
these TensorFlow
if you use those.
But in Trax, you only
need to understand
these Trax lines.
It's much easier to debug,
which makes programmers
more efficient.
Now this efficiency would not be
worth that much if the
code is running slow.
Hey, there's a lot of
beautiful things where you
can program things in a few line,
but the run so slowly that
it's actually useless.
Not so in Trax because we use
the just-in-time compiler
technology that was
built in the last six
years of TensorFlow.
It's called XLA, and we
use it on top of Trax.
These teams have put
tremendous effort
to make this coat the
fastest code on the planet.
There is an industry
competition called MLPerf.
In 2020, JAX actually
won this competition,
being the fastest transformer
to ever be benchmarked
independently.
So JAX transformer ran
in 0.26 of a minute,
so in about 16 seconds, I think,
while the fastest
TensorFlow transformer on
the same hardware
took 0.35 minutes.
So you see, it's almost
50 percent slower.
The fastest PyTorch, but this
was not on TPU, took 0.62.
So being two times faster
is significant game.
It's not clear you'll
get the same gain in
any model on other hardware.
There was a lot of
work to tune it for
this particular model hardware.
But in general, Trax runs fast.
This means, you'll pay less for
the TPUs and GPUs you'll
be running on Cloud.
It's also tested
with TPUs on Colab.
Colabs are the IPython notebooks
that Google gives you for free.
You can select a
hardware accelerator,
you can select TPU and run the
same code with no changes.
It's GPU, TPU, or CPU,
on this Colab, where
you're getting
an eight-code TPU for free.
So you can test your code
there and then run it on
Cloud for much cheaper
than other frameworks,
and it really runs fast.
So these are the
reasons to use Trax,
and for me, Trax
is also super fun.
It's super fun to learn,
it's super fun to use,
because we had the liberty
to do things from scratch
using many years
of experience now.
You can write model
using combinators.
This is a whole transformer
language model on the left.
On the right, you can
see it's from a README.
This is everything
you need to run
a pre-trained model and
get your translations.
So this gave us
the opportunity to
clean up the framework,
clean up the code, make
sure it runs really fast.
It's a lot of fun to use.
So I encourage you
come check it out.
See how you can use Trax for
your own machine learning
endeavors, both for research.
If you want to start
a startup or if you want to
run it for a big company,
I think Trax will
be there for you.